docs/INSTALL.md, before:

# Installation

Here, we show how to install Pixels in AWS EC2 as an example.
However, installation in other cloud or on-premises environments is almost the same.
In this example, we use Trino as the query engine. To use other query engines, skip [Install Trino](#install-trino)
and check the instructions for the other query engine:
* [Install Pixels + Presto](https://github.com/pixelsdb/pixels-presto)
* [Install Pixels + Hive](https://github.com/pixelsdb/pixels-hive)

In AWS EC2, create an Ubuntu-20.04 or 22.04 instance with x86 arch and at least 4GB memory and 20GB root volume. 
8GB or larger memory is recommended for performance evaluations on datasets larger than 10GB. 
Login the instance as `ubuntu` user, and install the following components.

> Installation steps marked with `*` are optional.
> After finishing the installation of Pixels + Trino, you can optionally enable [Pixels Turbo](../pixels-turbo).

## Install JDK
Install JDK 17.0 in the EC2 instance:
```bash
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jdk openjdk-17-jre
```
Check the java version:
```bash
java -version
```
If the other version of JDK is in use, switch to JDK 17:
```bash
update-java-alternatives --list
sudo update-java-alternatives --set /path/to/jdk-17.0
```
Oracle JDK 17.0, Azul Zulu JDK 17, or GraalVM 22 for Java 17 also works.

## Setup AWS Credentials*

If we use S3 as the underlying storage system, we have to configure the AWS credentials.

Currently, we do not configure the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` from Pixels.
Therefore, we have to configure these credentials using
[environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html#envvars-set) or
[credential files](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html).

## Install Pixels

To build Pixels from source and install it locally, you can simply run:

```bash 
# You may also want to append this line into `~/.bashrc`
export PIXELS_HOME=$HOME/opt/pixels/
./install.sh
```

But you still need to:
- Put the jdbc connector of MySQL into `PIXELS_HOME/lib`.
- Modify `pixels.properties` to ensure the following properties are valid:
```properties
pixels.var.dir=/home/pixels/opt/pixels/var/
metadata.db.driver=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
metadata.db.user=pixels
metadata.db.password=password
metadata.db.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/pixels_metadata?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&zeroDateTimeBehavior=convertToNull
metadata.server.port=18888
metadata.server.host=localhost
trans.server.port=18889
trans.server.host=localhost
etcd.hosts=localhost
etcd.port=2379
metrics.node.text.dir=/home/pixels/opt/node_exporter/text/
presto.pixels.jdbc.url=jdbc:trino://localhost:8080/pixels/tpch
hdfs.config.dir=/opt/hadoop-2.7.3/etc/hadoop/
```
The hostnames, ports, paths, usernames, and passwords in these properties are to be configured in the following steps of installation.

> **Note:** optionally, you can also set the `PIXEL_CONFIG` system environment variable
> to specify a different location of `pixels.properties`. This can be a http or https URL
> to a remote location.

Optionally, to install Pixels step-by-step, please see the guidance below.

### Install Step-by-Step*

Here, we install Pixels and other binary packages into the `~/opt` directory:
```bash
mkdir ~/opt
```

Create the home `~/opt/pixels` for Pixels:
```bash
cd ~/opt
mkdir pixels
```
Append this line into `~/.bashrc` and source it:
```bash
export PIXELS_HOME=$HOME/opt/pixels/
```
Create the following directories in `PIXELS_HOME`:
```bash
cd $PIXELS_HOME
mkdir bin
mkdir lib
mkdir listener
mkdir logs
mkdir sbin
mkdir var
```
Put the sh scripts in `scripts/bin` and `scripts/sbin` into `PIXELS_HOME/bin` and `PIXELS_HOME/sbin` respectively.
Put `pixels-daemon-*-full.jar` into `PIXELS_HOME`.
Put `pixels-cli-*-full.jar` into `PIXELS_HOME/sbin`
Put the jdbc connector of MySQL into `PIXELS_HOME/lib`.
Put `pixels-common/src/main/resources/pixels.properties` into `PIXELS_HOME`.
Modify `pixels.properties` to ensure that the URLs, ports, paths, usernames, and passwords are valid.
Leave the other config parameters as default.

Optionally, to use the columnar cache in Pixels (i.e., pixels-cache), create and mount an in-memory file system:
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/ramfs
sudo mount -t tmpfs -o size=1g tmpfs /mnt/ramfs
```
The path `/mnt/ramfs` is determined by `cache.location` and `index.location` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.
The `size` parameter of the mount command should be larger than or equal to the sum of `cache.size` and `index.size` in
`PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`. And it must be smaller than the physical memory size.
Set the schema name and table name of the cached table using `cache.schema` and `cache.table`, respectively.
Set `cache.storage.scheme` to be the name of the storage system where the cached table is stored.
**Finally**, set `cache.enabled` and `cache.read.direct` to `true` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.

Set `cache.enabled` to `false` if you don't use pixels-cache.

## Install MySQL
MySQL and etcd are used to store the metadata and states of Pixels. To install MySQL:
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install mysql-server
sudo mysql_secure_installation
```
Login MySQL and create a user and a metadata database for Pixels:
```mysql
CREATE USER 'pixels'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
CREATE DATABASE pixels_metadata;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON pixels_metadata.* to 'pixels'@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```
Ensure that MySQL server can be accessed remotely. Sometimes the default MySQL configuration
binds the server to localhost thus declines remote connections.

Use `scrpts/sql/metadata_schema.sql` to create tables in `pixels_metadata`.

## Install etcd

First install go-lang:
```bash
sudo apt install golang
```

Copy `scripts/tars/etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64.tar.xz` into `~/opt` and decompress it.
Append the following lines into `~/.bashrc` and source it:
```bash
export ETCDCTL_API=3
export ETCD=$HOME/opt/etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64-bin
export PATH=$PATH:$ETCD
```
All the following commands are executed under `~/opt` by default.
Create the link and start etcd:
```bash
ln -s etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64-bin etcd
cd etcd
./start-etcd.sh
```
You can use `screen` or `nohup` to run it in the background.

## Install Hadoop*
Hadoop is optional. It is only needed if you want to use HDFS as an underlying storage.

Pixels has been tested to be compatible with Hadoop-2.7.3 and Hadoop-3.3.1.
Follow the official docs to install Hadoop.

Modify `hdfs.config.dir` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`
and point it to the `etc/hadoop` directory under the home of Hadoop.
Pixels will read the Hadoop configuration files `core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml` from this directory.

> Note that some default ports used by Hadoop
> may conflict with the default ports used by Trino. In this case, modify the default port configuration
> of either system.

## Install Trino
Trino is the recommended query engine that works with Pixels. Currently, Pixels is compatible with Trino-405.
Download and install Trino-405 following the instructions [here](https://trino.io/docs/405/installation/deployment.html).

Here, we install Trino to `~/opt/trino-server-405` and create a link for it:
```bash
ln -s trino-server-405 trino-server
```
Then download [trino-cli](https://trinodb.github.io/docs.trino.io/405/client/cli.html) into `~/opt/trino-server/bin/`
and give executable permission to it.

There are two important directories in the home of trino-server: `etc` and `plugin`.
Decompress `pixels-trino-listener-*.zip` and `pixels-trino-connector-*.zip` into the `plugin` directory.
The `etc` directory contains the configuration files of Trino.
In addition to the configurations mentioned in the official docs, add the following configurations
for Pixels:
* Create the listener config file named `event-listener.properties` in the `etc` directory, with the following content:
```properties
event-listener.name=pixels-event-listener
enabled=true
listened.user.prefix=none
listened.schema=pixels
listened.query.type=SELECT
log.dir=/home/ubuntu/opt/pixels/listener/
```
`log-dir` should point to
an existing directory where the listener logs will appear.

* Create the catalog config file named `pixels.properties` for Pixels in the `etc/catalog` directory,
  with the following content:
```properties
connector.name=pixels
pixels.config=/home/ubuntu/opt/pixels/pixels.properties

# serverless config
# lambda.switch can be on, off, auto
lambda.switch=auto
local.scan.concurrency=40
clean.local.result=true
output.scheme=output-scheme-dummy
output.folder=output-folder-dummy
output.endpoint=output-endpoint-dummy
output.access.key=lambda
output.secret.key=password
```
`pixels.config` is used to specify the config file for Pixels, and has a higher priority than the config file under `PIXELS_HOME`.
**Note** that `etc/catalog/pixels.proterties` under Trino's home is different from `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.
The other properties are related to serverless execution.
In Trino, Pixels can push projections, filters, joins, and aggregations into serverless computing services (e.g., AWS Lambda).
This feature is named `Pixels Turbo` and can be turned on by setting `lambda.switch` to `auto` (adaptively enabled) or `on` (always enabled), 
`output.scheme` to the storage scheme of the intermediate files (e.g. s3),
`output.folder` to the directory of the intermediate files, `output.endpoint` to the endpoint of the intermediate storage,
and `output.access/secret.key` to the access/secret key of the intermediate storage.

Append the following two lines into `etc/jvm.config`:
```config
--add-opens=java.base/sun.nio.ch=ALL-UNNAMED
--add-opens=java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED
```
Thus, pixels can reflect internal or low-level classes to improve performance. This is only needed for Java 9+.

Some scripts in Trino may require python:
```bash
sudo apt-get install python
```

## Install Prometheus and Grafana*
Prometheus and Grafana are optional. We can install them to monitor the
performance metrics of the whole system.

To install Prometheus, copy `node_exporter-1.5.0.linux-amd64.tar.xz`, `jmx_exporter-0.18.0.tar.xz`, and `prometheus-2.43.0.linux-amd64.tar.xz`
under `scripts/tars` into the `~/opt` directory and decompress them.

Create links:
```bash
ln -s jmx_exporter-0.18.0/ jmx_exporter
ln -s node_exporter-1.5.0.linux-amd64 node_exporter
ln -s prometheus-2.43.0.linux-amd64 prometheus
```

Append the following lines into `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
export PROMETHEUS_HOME=$HOME/opt/prometheus/
export NODE_EXPORTER_HOME=$HOME/opt/node_exporter
export PATH=$PATH:$PROMETHEUS_HOME:$NODE_EXPORTER_HOME
```

Enter the home of Trino-server. Append this line to `etc/jvm.config`:
```bash
-javaagent:/home/ubuntu/opt/jmx_exporter/jmx_prometheus_javaagent-0.18.0.jar=9101:/home/ubuntu/opt/jmx_exporter/pixels-jmx.yml
```

Start `node_exporter` and `prometheus` respectively, using the `start-*.sh` in their directories.
You can use `screen` or `nohup` to run them in the background.

Then, follow the instructions [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/debian/)
to install Grafana.

Log in Grafana, create a Prometheus data source named `cluster-monitor`.
Set `URL` to `http://localhost:9090`, `Scrape Interval` to `5s`, and `HTTP Method` to `GET`. Other configurations remains default.

Import the json dashboard configuration files under `scripts/grafana` into Grafana.
Then we get three dashboards `Node Exporter` and `JVM Exporter` in Grafana.
These dashboards can be used to monitor the performance metrics of the instance.

## Start Pixels
Enter `PIXELS_HOME`.
If pixels-cache is enabled, set up the cache before starting Pixels:
```bash
./sbin/reset-cache.sh
sudo ./sbin/pin-cache.sh
```
`reset-cache.sh` is only needed for the first time of using pixels-cache.
It initializes some states in etcd for the cache.

Even if pixels-cache is disabled, `reset-cache.sh` is needed for the first time of starting Pixels.
Then, start the daemons of Pixels using:
```bash
./sbin/start-pixels.sh
```
The metadata server, coordinator, node manager, and metrics server, are running in the daemons.

After starting Pixels, enter the home of trino-server and start Trino:
```bash
./bin/launcher start
```

Connect to trino-server using trino-cli:
```bash
./bin/trino --server localhost:8080 --catalog pixels
```
Run `SHOW SCHEMAS` in trino-cli, the result should be as follows if everything is installed correctly.
```sql
       Schema       
--------------------
 information_schema 
(1 row)
```

By now, Pixels has been installed in the EC2 instance. The aforementioned instructions should also
work in other kinds of VMs or physical servers.

Run the script `$PIXELS_HOME/sbin/stop-pixels.sh` to stop Pixels when needed.
If pixels-cache is used, also run the `$PIXELS_HOME/sbin/unpin-cache.sh` to release the memory that is
pinned by the cache.

Commit message:

[docs] update pixels-turbo settings. (#454)

docs/INSTALL.md, after:

# Installation

Here, we show how to install Pixels in AWS EC2 as an example.
However, installation in other cloud or on-premises environments is almost the same.
In this example, we use Trino as the query engine. To use other query engines, skip [Install Trino](#install-trino)
and check the instructions for the other query engine:
* [Install Pixels + Presto](https://github.com/pixelsdb/pixels-presto)
* [Install Pixels + Hive](https://github.com/pixelsdb/pixels-hive)

In AWS EC2, create an Ubuntu-20.04 or 22.04 instance with x86 arch and at least 4GB memory and 20GB root volume. 
8GB or larger memory is recommended for performance evaluations on datasets larger than 10GB. 
Login the instance as `ubuntu` user, and install the following components.

> Installation steps marked with `*` are optional.
> After finishing the installation of Pixels + Trino, you can optionally enable [Pixels Turbo](../pixels-turbo).

## Install JDK
Install JDK 17.0 in the EC2 instance:
```bash
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jdk openjdk-17-jre
```
Check the java version:
```bash
java -version
```
If the other version of JDK is in use, switch to JDK 17:
```bash
update-java-alternatives --list
sudo update-java-alternatives --set /path/to/jdk-17.0
```
Oracle JDK 17.0, Azul Zulu JDK 17, or GraalVM 22 for Java 17 also works.

## Setup AWS Credentials*

If we use S3 as the underlying storage system, we have to configure the AWS credentials.

Currently, we do not configure the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` from Pixels.
Therefore, we have to configure these credentials using
[environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html#envvars-set) or
[credential files](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html).

## Install Pixels

To build Pixels from source and install it locally, you can simply run:

```bash 
# You may also want to append this line into `~/.bashrc`
export PIXELS_HOME=$HOME/opt/pixels/
./install.sh
```

But you still need to:
- Put the jdbc connector of MySQL into `PIXELS_HOME/lib`.
- Modify `pixels.properties` to ensure the following properties are valid:
```properties
pixels.var.dir=/home/pixels/opt/pixels/var/
metadata.db.driver=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
metadata.db.user=pixels
metadata.db.password=password
metadata.db.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/pixels_metadata?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&zeroDateTimeBehavior=convertToNull
metadata.server.port=18888
metadata.server.host=localhost
trans.server.port=18889
trans.server.host=localhost
etcd.hosts=localhost
etcd.port=2379
metrics.node.text.dir=/home/pixels/opt/node_exporter/text/
presto.pixels.jdbc.url=jdbc:trino://localhost:8080/pixels/tpch
hdfs.config.dir=/opt/hadoop-2.7.3/etc/hadoop/
```
The hostnames, ports, paths, usernames, and passwords in these properties are to be configured in the following steps of installation.

> **Note:** optionally, you can also set the `PIXEL_CONFIG` system environment variable
> to specify a different location of `pixels.properties`. This can be a http or https URL
> to a remote location.

Optionally, to install Pixels step-by-step, please see the guidance below.

### Install Step-by-Step*

Here, we install Pixels and other binary packages into the `~/opt` directory:
```bash
mkdir ~/opt
```

Create the home `~/opt/pixels` for Pixels:
```bash
cd ~/opt
mkdir pixels
```
Append this line into `~/.bashrc` and source it:
```bash
export PIXELS_HOME=$HOME/opt/pixels/
```
Create the following directories in `PIXELS_HOME`:
```bash
cd $PIXELS_HOME
mkdir bin
mkdir lib
mkdir listener
mkdir logs
mkdir sbin
mkdir var
```
Put the sh scripts in `scripts/bin` and `scripts/sbin` into `PIXELS_HOME/bin` and `PIXELS_HOME/sbin` respectively.
Put `pixels-daemon-*-full.jar` into `PIXELS_HOME`.
Put `pixels-cli-*-full.jar` into `PIXELS_HOME/sbin`
Put the jdbc connector of MySQL into `PIXELS_HOME/lib`.
Put `pixels-common/src/main/resources/pixels.properties` into `PIXELS_HOME`.
Modify `pixels.properties` to ensure that the URLs, ports, paths, usernames, and passwords are valid.
Leave the other config parameters as default.

Optionally, to use the columnar cache in Pixels (i.e., pixels-cache), create and mount an in-memory file system:
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/ramfs
sudo mount -t tmpfs -o size=1g tmpfs /mnt/ramfs
```
The path `/mnt/ramfs` is determined by `cache.location` and `index.location` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.
The `size` parameter of the mount command should be larger than or equal to the sum of `cache.size` and `index.size` in
`PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`. And it must be smaller than the physical memory size.
Set the schema name and table name of the cached table using `cache.schema` and `cache.table`, respectively.
Set `cache.storage.scheme` to be the name of the storage system where the cached table is stored.
**Finally**, set `cache.enabled` and `cache.read.direct` to `true` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.

Set `cache.enabled` to `false` if you don't use pixels-cache.

## Install MySQL
MySQL and etcd are used to store the metadata and states of Pixels. To install MySQL:
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install mysql-server
sudo mysql_secure_installation
```
Login MySQL and create a user and a metadata database for Pixels:
```mysql
CREATE USER 'pixels'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
CREATE DATABASE pixels_metadata;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON pixels_metadata.* to 'pixels'@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```
Ensure that MySQL server can be accessed remotely. Sometimes the default MySQL configuration
binds the server to localhost thus declines remote connections.

Use `scrpts/sql/metadata_schema.sql` to create tables in `pixels_metadata`.

## Install etcd

First install go-lang:
```bash
sudo apt install golang
```

Copy `scripts/tars/etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64.tar.xz` into `~/opt` and decompress it.
Append the following lines into `~/.bashrc` and source it:
```bash
export ETCDCTL_API=3
export ETCD=$HOME/opt/etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64-bin
export PATH=$PATH:$ETCD
```
All the following commands are executed under `~/opt` by default.
Create the link and start etcd:
```bash
ln -s etcd-v3.3.4-linux-amd64-bin etcd
cd etcd
./start-etcd.sh
```
You can use `screen` or `nohup` to run it in the background.

## Install Hadoop*
Hadoop is optional. It is only needed if you want to use HDFS as an underlying storage.

Pixels has been tested to be compatible with Hadoop-2.7.3 and Hadoop-3.3.1.
Follow the official docs to install Hadoop.

Modify `hdfs.config.dir` in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`
and point it to the `etc/hadoop` directory under the home of Hadoop.
Pixels will read the Hadoop configuration files `core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml` from this directory.

> Note that some default ports used by Hadoop
> may conflict with the default ports used by Trino. In this case, modify the default port configuration
> of either system.

## Install Trino
Trino is the recommended query engine that works with Pixels. Currently, Pixels is compatible with Trino-405.
Download and install Trino-405 following the instructions [here](https://trino.io/docs/405/installation/deployment.html).

Here, we install Trino to `~/opt/trino-server-405` and create a link for it:
```bash
ln -s trino-server-405 trino-server
```
Then download [trino-cli](https://trinodb.github.io/docs.trino.io/405/client/cli.html) into `~/opt/trino-server/bin/`
and give executable permission to it.

There are two important directories in the home of trino-server: `etc` and `plugin`.
Decompress `pixels-trino-listener-*.zip` and `pixels-trino-connector-*.zip` into the `plugin` directory.
The `etc` directory contains the configuration files of Trino.
In addition to the configurations mentioned in the official docs, add the following configurations
for Pixels:
* Create the listener config file named `event-listener.properties` in the `etc` directory, with the following content:
```properties
event-listener.name=pixels-event-listener
enabled=true
listened.user.prefix=none
listened.schema=pixels
listened.query.type=SELECT
log.dir=/home/ubuntu/opt/pixels/listener/
```
`log-dir` should point to
an existing directory where the listener logs will appear.

* Create the catalog config file named `pixels.properties` for Pixels in the `etc/catalog` directory,
  with the following content:
```properties
connector.name=pixels
pixels.config=/home/ubuntu/opt/pixels/pixels.properties

# serverless config
# lambda.switch can be on, off, auto
lambda.switch=auto
local.scan.concurrency=40
clean.local.result=true
```
`pixels.config` is used to specify the config file for Pixels, and has a higher priority than the config file under `PIXELS_HOME`.
**Note** that `etc/catalog/pixels.proterties` under Trino's home is different from `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`.
The other properties are related to serverless execution.
In Trino, Pixels can push projections, filters, joins, and aggregations into serverless computing services (e.g., AWS Lambda).
This feature is named `Pixels Turbo` and can be turned on by setting `lambda.switch` to `auto` (adaptively enabled) or `on` (always enabled).

If Pixels Turbo is enabled, we also need to set the following settings in `PIXELS_HOME/pixels.properties`:
```properties
executor.input.storage.scheme=s3
executor.input.storage.endpoint=input-endpoint-dummy
executor.input.storage.access.key=input-ak-dummy
executor.input.storage.secret.key=input-sk-dummy
executor.intermediate.storage.scheme=s3
executor.intermediate.storage.endpoint=intermediate-endpoint-dummy
executor.intermediate.storage.access.key=intermediate-ak-dummy
executor.intermediate.storage.secret.key=intermediate-sk-dummy
executor.intermediate.folder=/pixels-lambda-test/
executor.output.storage.scheme=s3
executor.output.storage.endpoint=output-endpoint-dummy
executor.output.storage.access.key=output-ak-dummy
executor.output.storage.secret.key=output-sk-dummy
executor.output.folder=/pixels-lambda-test/
```
Those storage schemes, endpoints, and access and secret keys are used to access the input data 
(the data of the base tables defined by `CREATE TABLE` statements), the intermediate data (intermediate
results generated during query execution), and the output data (the result of the sub-plan executed in
the serverless workers), respectively.
Ensure that they are valid so that the serverless workers can access the corresponding storage systems.
Especially, the `executor.input.storage.scheme` must be consistent with the storage scheme of the base
tables. This is checked during query-planning for Pixels Turbo.
In addition, the `executor.intermediate.folder` and `executor.output.folder` are the base path where the intermediate
and output data are stored. They also need to be valid and accessible by the serverless workers.

Append the following two lines into `etc/jvm.config`:
```config
--add-opens=java.base/sun.nio.ch=ALL-UNNAMED
--add-opens=java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED
```
Thus, pixels can reflect internal or low-level classes to improve performance. This is only needed for Java 9+.

Some scripts in Trino may require python:
```bash
sudo apt-get install python
```

## Install Prometheus and Grafana*
Prometheus and Grafana are optional. We can install them to monitor the
performance metrics of the whole system.

To install Prometheus, copy `node_exporter-1.5.0.linux-amd64.tar.xz`, `jmx_exporter-0.18.0.tar.xz`, and `prometheus-2.43.0.linux-amd64.tar.xz`
under `scripts/tars` into the `~/opt` directory and decompress them.

Create links:
```bash
ln -s jmx_exporter-0.18.0/ jmx_exporter
ln -s node_exporter-1.5.0.linux-amd64 node_exporter
ln -s prometheus-2.43.0.linux-amd64 prometheus
```

Append the following lines into `~/.bashrc`:
```bash
export PROMETHEUS_HOME=$HOME/opt/prometheus/
export NODE_EXPORTER_HOME=$HOME/opt/node_exporter
export PATH=$PATH:$PROMETHEUS_HOME:$NODE_EXPORTER_HOME
```

Enter the home of Trino-server. Append this line to `etc/jvm.config`:
```bash
-javaagent:/home/ubuntu/opt/jmx_exporter/jmx_prometheus_javaagent-0.18.0.jar=9101:/home/ubuntu/opt/jmx_exporter/pixels-jmx.yml
```

Start `node_exporter` and `prometheus` respectively, using the `start-*.sh` in their directories.
You can use `screen` or `nohup` to run them in the background.

Then, follow the instructions [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/debian/)
to install Grafana.

Log in Grafana, create a Prometheus data source named `cluster-monitor`.
Set `URL` to `http://localhost:9090`, `Scrape Interval` to `5s`, and `HTTP Method` to `GET`. Other configurations remains default.

Import the json dashboard configuration files under `scripts/grafana` into Grafana.
Then we get three dashboards `Node Exporter` and `JVM Exporter` in Grafana.
These dashboards can be used to monitor the performance metrics of the instance.

## Start Pixels
Enter `PIXELS_HOME`.
If pixels-cache is enabled, set up the cache before starting Pixels:
```bash
./sbin/reset-cache.sh
sudo ./sbin/pin-cache.sh
```
`reset-cache.sh` is only needed for the first time of using pixels-cache.
It initializes some states in etcd for the cache.

Even if pixels-cache is disabled, `reset-cache.sh` is needed for the first time of starting Pixels.
Then, start the daemons of Pixels using:
```bash
./sbin/start-pixels.sh
```
The metadata server, coordinator, node manager, and metrics server, are running in the daemons.

After starting Pixels, enter the home of trino-server and start Trino:
```bash
./bin/launcher start
```

Connect to trino-server using trino-cli:
```bash
./bin/trino --server localhost:8080 --catalog pixels
```
Run `SHOW SCHEMAS` in trino-cli, the result should be as follows if everything is installed correctly.
```sql
       Schema       
--------------------
 information_schema 
(1 row)
```

By now, Pixels has been installed in the EC2 instance. The aforementioned instructions should also
work in other kinds of VMs or physical servers.

Run the script `$PIXELS_HOME/sbin/stop-pixels.sh` to stop Pixels when needed.
If pixels-cache is used, also run the `$PIXELS_HOME/sbin/unpin-cache.sh` to release the memory that is
pinned by the cache.
